# Code Book of run_analysis.R and the Output Tidy Data

## Source data
The codes perform analysis on the source data - UCI HAR Dataset
Url: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

## What the code performs
The code does the follows:

### Step 1: Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
* Download zip file into current working directory
* Unzip file and show what's inside
* Read data into R
* Merge data to create one data set

### Step 2: Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
* Get index of the target feature names
* Apply index to merged data set

### Step 3: Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.
* Replace activity labels with corresponding activity names

### Step 4: Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
* Replace column names with meaningful feature variables
* Replace abbreviations with readable words according to features_info.txt

### Step 5: From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
* Calculate mean for each variable grouped by subject and activity
* Output new tidy data

## Output data information

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually.  

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. Then the mean figure of each feature is calculated, for each subject and activity subset (totally 180 subsets).

For each record it is provided:
* An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.
* Its activity name. 
* A 66-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables, capturing means and standard deviations. 

### Observations
Totally 180 observations, each stands for one of the 6 activities taken by on of the 30 volunteers.

* Each volunteer is given a identifier shown as number 1-30
* List of activities:
1. WALKING
2. WALKING_UPSTAIRS
3. WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
4. SITTING
5. STANDING
6. LAYING

### Variables
* The 1st variable "subject" is the identifier for 30 volunteers.
* the 2nd variable "activity" stands for 6 types of activities took by subjects.
* the 3rd to 68th variables are outcome mean and standard deviation features generated by the devices.

### Data
The data in column 3 to 68 are the mean of each corresponding subject and activity group in the source data.
